.TH PULSEGO 1 "February 2026" "PulseGo" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pulsego \- network health and performance monitoring tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pulsego
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PulseGo is a high-performance network diagnostic tool that measures the "pulse" of your connection. Unlike traditional speedtests, PulseGo analyzes Jitter, Latency, and Packet Stability to grade your network for real-world tasks like Gaming, 4K Streaming, and VoIP.

The tool uses Go Goroutines to efficiently saturate bandwidth while measuring packet consistency, providing accurate QoE (Quality of Experience) metrics.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B Standard Mode
Runs a complete network diagnostic with download speed, latency, jitter, and bufferbloat measurement.
.TP
.B Watchdog Mode (\-\-watch)
Continuous monitoring mode for real-time network health tracking. Ideal for gamers who want to monitor their connection while playing.
.TP
.B Gaming Mode (\-\-gaming)
Latency-focused monitoring that uses small payloads to avoid bandwidth saturation. Perfect for monitoring during gameplay.
.TP
.B Stress Mode (\-\-stress)
Tests network under heavy load with high concurrency connections.
.TP
.B P2P Mode (\-\-p2p)
Tests against multiple endpoints simultaneously for distributed network analysis.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-simple
Output speed only (human-readable format).
.TP
.B \-\-format=\fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fItext\fR (default), \fIjson\fR, \fIprometheus\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-url=\fIURL\fR
Test URL for speed test. Default: http://speedtest.tele2.net/10MB.zip
.TP
.B \-\-downloads=\fIN\fR
Number of simultaneous connections. Default: 4
.TP
.B \-\-timeout=\fIDURATION\fR
Timeout per download operation. Default: 2m
.TP
.B \-\-jitter=\fIBOOL\fR
Measure jitter. Default: true
.TP
.B \-\-bufferbloat=\fIBOOL\fR
Measure bufferbloat. Default: true
.TP
.B \-\-stress
Enable stress test mode with high concurrency.
.TP
.B \-\-p2p=\fIURLS\fR
Comma-separated list of URLs for P2P testing.
.SS Watchdog Options
.TP
.B \-\-watch
Enable continuous monitoring mode.
.TP
.B \-\-interval=\fIDURATION\fR
Monitoring interval in watchdog mode. Default: 5s
.TP
.B \-\-gaming
Gaming mode: uses small payloads (1MB) and focuses on latency/jitter metrics without saturating bandwidth.
.TP
.B \-\-latency\-threshold=\fIDURATION\fR
Alert threshold for latency. Triggers alert when exceeded. Default: 100ms
.TP
.B \-\-jitter\-threshold=\fIDURATION\fR
Alert threshold for jitter. Default: 15ms
.TP
.B \-\-loss\-threshold=\fIPERCENT\fR
Alert threshold for packet loss percentage. Default: 5.0
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.TP
.B text
Human-readable output with all metrics and health grade.
.TP
.B json
JSON format for integration with monitoring systems, APIs, or scripts.
.TP
.B prometheus
Prometheus exposition format for direct integration with Prometheus server.
.SH HEALTH GRADES
.TP
.B A (90-100)
Excellent - Optimal for gaming, streaming, VoIP
.TP
.B B (75-89)
Good - Suitable for most applications
.TP
.B C (60-74)
Fair - May experience issues with demanding apps
.TP
.B D (40-59)
Poor - Noticeable degradation in performance
.TP
.B F (0-39)
Unacceptable - Network issues likely
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Quick speed check:
pulsego \-\-simple
.TP
.B Full diagnostic:
pulsego
.TP
.B Gaming watchdog mode:
pulsego \-\-watch \-\-gaming
.TP
.B Competitive gaming alerts (strict thresholds):
pulsego \-\-watch \-\-gaming \-\-interval 2s \-\-latency\-threshold 30ms \-\-jitter\-threshold 5ms
.TP
.B JSON output for scripts:
pulsego \-\-format=json > metrics.json
.TP
.B Prometheus metrics:
pulsego \-\-format=prometheus
.TP
.B Stress test with 20 connections:
pulsego \-\-stress \-\-downloads 20
.TP
.B Test custom server:
pulsego \-\-url https://your-server.com/testfile.bin
.SH METRICS
.TP
.B Download Speed
Network throughput in Mbps
.TP
.B Latency
Round-trip time for HTTP request
.TP
.B TTFB (Time To First Byte)
Server response time
.TP
.B Jitter
Variation in latency between consecutive samples
.TP
.B Packet Loss
Percentage of failed requests
.TP
.B Bufferbloat
Latency increase under load
.TP
.B Health Score
Overall grade from 0-100
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (network failure, invalid arguments, etc.)
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $GOPATH/bin/pulsego
Default binary location when installed via \fBgo install\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Written by LoboGuardian.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/LoboGuardian/PulseGo/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. See LICENSE file for details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR speedtest-cli(1),
.BR ping(1),
.BR iperf3(1)
